documentation/java/Docker.md, before:

# Docker

This task involves taking the application which was created in the [Spring Boot REST](Spring_Boot_REST) task and moving it into a Docker container.

## Udemy

[Learn Docker](https://capco.udemy.com/course/learn-docker)

## Task

### Prerequisites

[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/installation/#installation)

### Steps

The task involves you setting up and running a newly created docker image and running your application using that docker image. You can follow the tutorial here using Maven: <https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot-docker/>.

* You should be able to create the docker image using a command similar to `./gradlew build docker`
* With maven, first generate the application Jar file `./mvnw package`
* Create a docker image of your application `./mvnw install dockerfile:build`
* Run the application using a command similar to `./docker run -p 8080:8080 -t myDockerImage`
* Test that your application functions correctly when running in the docker container.

![output](attachments/418742301/423886869.png?height=250)

## Notes

### Clean Build

To clean, build and run the application as a spring boot application, run: ./gradle clean build bootRun.

This command results in a Mockito Test failure if you have Java 11 installed. You would require a Java 8 to be installed instead.

## Extra Help - How docker works

* [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/)

[![How Docker works.](https://img.youtube.com/vi/IEGPzmxyIpo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEGPzmxyIpo)

Commit message:

Adds paragraph about Docker Image Layers to make builds more performant.

documentation/java/Docker.md, after:

# Docker

This task involves taking the application which was created in the [Spring Boot REST](Spring_Boot_REST) task and moving
it into a Docker container.

## Udemy

[Learn Docker](https://capco.udemy.com/course/learn-docker)

## Task

### Prerequisites

[Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/installation/#installation)

### Steps

The task involves you setting up and running a newly created docker image and running your application using that docker
image. You can follow the tutorial here using Maven: <https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot-docker/>.

* You should be able to create the docker image using a command similar to `./gradlew build docker`
* With maven, first generate the application Jar file `./mvnw package`
* Create a docker image of your application `./mvnw install dockerfile:build`
* Run the application using a command similar to `./docker run -p 8080:8080 -t myDockerImage`
* Test that your application functions correctly when running in the docker container.

![output](attachments/418742301/423886869.png?height=250)

## Docker Image Layers

To use Docker Image Layers caching when buliding a Spring Boot application Docker image follow
[Creating Docker images with Spring Boot 2.3.0.M1](https://spring.io/blog/2020/01/27/creating-docker-images-with-spring-boot-2-3-0-m1).
and
[Layered Jar or War](https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/maven-plugin/reference/htmlsingle/)
The use of caching for layers which are not changed between builds, the process is much more efficient and is considered
as a good practice.

## Notes

### Clean Build

To clean, build and run the application as a spring boot application, run: ./gradle clean build bootRun.

This command results in a Mockito Test failure if you have Java 11 installed. You would require a Java 8 to be installed
instead.





## Extra Help - How docker works

* [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/)

[![How Docker works.](https://img.youtube.com/vi/IEGPzmxyIpo/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IEGPzmxyIpo)
