documentation/java/MongoDB.md, before:

# MongoDB

The purpose of this task is to add a database connection to the java application. For now, there is no need to use the connection, but you should confirm that the database connection is up and running and available for use.

## Udemy

[Introduction to MongoDB](https://capco.udemy.com/course/mongodb-the-complete-developers-guide)

## Task

* Firstly, setup a local MongoDB and confirm that you can connect to it. You can either do a local installation or use a docker container running MongoDB. You can use a tool such as Studio 3T to practice inserting and deleting rows and running some basic operations on the database.
* Secondly, create a connection to this database in your java application. Consider where the connection details to this database should be held (in code or a configuration file). Write a simple method which should be run when you boot up your Spring Boot application which confirms that the database is running and that you can connect to it.

## Output

```docker run --name digital-engineering-mongo -d -p 127.0.0.1:27017:27017 mongo:3.6```

![console](attachments/418775081/423985186.png?height=250)

![output](attachments/418775081/423919691.png?height=250)

Run `docker ps` to find your docker id then run ```docker exec -it [DOCKER_ID] bash``` then `mongo` in order to enter the mongo repl. You can then create databases and collections.

If you are experiencing a bug where your application is connecting to the mongoldb, check below for a possible solution:

For an application running in your local machine (eclipse or any other IDEA):

* In your application.properties file, make sure the host is localhost - `spring.data.mongodb.host=localhost`

* For your application running in your container, the host must be the name of your database (mongodb), in this case is 'mongodb' - `spring.data.mongodb.host=mongodb`

If the first solution did not solve the issue, try to link the containers, by using the following command:

* First stop application container, by running `docker stop container-name/id`
* Then delete the application container, by running `docker rm -f container-name/id`
* And finally, link both container by running it again with `--link` flag - `docker run \[options\] --link containerA-name/id:containerB-name/id`

And if for some reason the application is still unable to connect to the database. Check if they are running in the same network, if not connected them to the same network

```shell
# list exiting networks
docker network ls

# inspect networks configuration and all containers
# look for the one where your kafka is running
docker network inspect network-name

# add a container to a specific network
docker network connect container id/name

# to create a new network
docker network create network-name
```

## Extra Help

* [Accessing MongoDB Data](https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-mongodb)
* [Docker Commands](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/#child-commands)
* [New To Mongo](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/mongodb/index.htm)

Commit message:

Adds section about using docker-compose for deployment of multiple docker containers.

documentation/java/MongoDB.md, after:

# MongoDB

The purpose of this task is to add a database connection to the java application. For now, there is no need to use the
connection, but you should confirm that the database connection is up and running and available for use.

## Udemy

[Introduction to MongoDB](https://capco.udemy.com/course/mongodb-the-complete-developers-guide)

## Task

* Firstly, setup a local MongoDB and confirm that you can connect to it. You can either do a local installation or use
a docker container running MongoDB. You can use a tool such as Studio 3T to practice inserting and deleting rows and
running some basic operations on the database.
* Secondly, create a connection to this database in your java application. Consider where the connection details to this
database should be held (in code or a configuration file). Write a simple method which should be run when you boot up
your Spring Boot application which confirms that the database is running and that you can connect to it.

## Output

```docker run --name digital-engineering-mongo -d -p 127.0.0.1:27017:27017 mongo:3.6```

![console](attachments/418775081/423985186.png?height=250)

![output](attachments/418775081/423919691.png?height=250)

Run `docker ps` to find your docker id then run ```docker exec -it [DOCKER_ID] bash``` then `mongo` in order to enter
the mongo repl. You can then create databases and collections.

If you are experiencing a bug where your application is connecting to the mongoldb, check below for a possible solution:

For an application running in your local machine (eclipse or any other IDEA):

* In your application.properties file, make sure the host is localhost - `spring.data.mongodb.host=localhost`

* For your application running in your container, the host must be the name of your database (mongodb), in this case is
'mongodb' - `spring.data.mongodb.host=mongodb`

If the first solution did not solve the issue, try to link the containers, by using the following command:

* First stop application container, by running `docker stop container-name/id`
* Then delete the application container, by running `docker rm -f container-name/id`
* And finally, link both container by running it again with `--link` flag - `docker run \[options\] --link containerA-name/id:containerB-name/id`

And if for some reason the application is still unable to connect to the database. Check if they are running in the
same network, if not connected them to the same network

```shell
# list exiting networks
docker network ls

# inspect networks configuration and all containers
# look for the one where your kafka is running
docker network inspect network-name

# add a container to a specific network
docker network connect container id/name

# to create a new network
docker network create network-name
```

## Use `docker-compose`

As you will have now 2 services which need to work togheter: mongoDB and spring-boot application (create docker image
following [Docker Task](Docker.md)), try to explore [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) which let you 
write the deployment configuration in a `yaml` format. By using it you won't need to type anymore long commands, and 
also setting up communication between servicesis mucheasier as `docker-compose` will take care of
[networking](https://docs.docker.com/compose/networking/).

## Extra Help

* [Accessing MongoDB Data](https://spring.io/guides/gs/accessing-data-mongodb)
* [Docker Commands](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/docker/#child-commands)
* [New To Mongo](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/mongodb/index.htm)
